Ventures v1.0, 2014-06-20
https://github.com/mschroen/ventures

INSTALL
-------

Follow the instructions in the INSTALL file.


SHORT DESCRIBTION
-----------------

Easily note, browse and print your scientific projects (which I call ventures)!

A notebook interface for simple files and folders.
Work on the projects via terminal, explorer, or web interface.
TeX the whole thing with a click.
Create fancy reports within a minute.
Ventures allows you to write articles and take mind notes quickly and progressively.


WORKFLOW
--------

Ventures does not dictate how you should work, eg via
- terminal,
- explorer, or
- web interface,
while the web interface is not able to add or remove additional files
(that are not section content).

STRUCTURE
---------

chapter/
	All your data will be in that folder
	You can sync this folder, add it to a dropbox or whatever you want.

chapter/name/
	Every subfolder denotes a self-contained project.
	If you create folders manually (via terminal or Explorer),
	try to prevent whitespaces in the name.
	
chapter/name/name.txt
	This is the section content text. Since this is directly below
	the first level of your project, this file denotes the Abstract.
	When teXing, it should not contain large elements or images.
	
chapter/name/name.pdf
	Once you compiled your project with TeX on the web interface
	its pdf will show up here.
	
chapter/name/*
	Add files and subfolders (==sections) as you want

chapter/name/index
	You do not need to touch this file,
	in stores the order of appearance of the subfolders (sections).

clipboard/
	If you want to remove a section (folder) temperally in order
	to use or paste it later on, move it here.
	
trash/
	If you want to delete a section (folder) but do not dare to 
	erase it irretrievably, move it here.
	The web interface will always "delete" sections this way.


WORKFLOW (Web interface)
------------------------

The "Ventures" logo brings you always a page that shows
all your ventures subsequently. You can search all projects here,
but you can not TeX them.

Add ventures with the "+" button on the top. 
Enter a venture to show only its content. Now you can TeX it.
In the clipboard you find cutted sections.
Add a section with the small "+" line that will glow green.

NOTE:
If you open PDFs in the tex/ directory, another TeX run can not overwrite it
and will fail. If you open the PDF in the chapter's directory,
Ventures can not update (replace) it after another TeX run.
In the case that you want to have the PDF open all the time and
like to see updates immediatly, I recommend to open the PDF in
the chapter's directory with the software "Evince".
It is a lightweight PDF viewer that does not lock the file and
automagically refreshes on modification.


IMAGE SUPPORT
-------------

We experienced that both web browsers and LaTeX are supporting
the following image formats very well:
.png (use this for usual pixel images)
.svg (use this for vector graphics like scientific plots)

Before including the svg files to LaTeX, they will be converted
to pdf. All images needed for LaTeX are copied to tex/img/


WANT TO DO MORE CHANGES ON THE TEX FILES?
-----------------------------------------

In a final state, you can just go to the folder tex/ and compile
the files directly with a TeX compiler. Or take the code out and
move it to your independent thesis or paper project. Just keep in
mind that the files in tex/ are overwritten when calling TeX again.


TECHNICAL WORKFLOW (If you want to know how it works)
------------------

At localhost, your web browser calls the web server (eg. Apache).
The webserver then will look into the ventures directory and call
"perl" to run the .pl scripts. Perl will look into the chapter/
directory and translate the folders and files into HTML code,
which results in a nice looking web interface. Most of the features
provided by the web interface are simple file operations like save,
rename or move, called from perl scripts. When the HTML website is
displayed, a java script library "MathJax" will look for TeX code
on the page and display it properly. The button "TeX" will call
another perl script that translates the text files into TeX code
located in the tex/ folder. The script then calls simply "pdflatex" 
on these scripts to create the pdf.

